installing wordpress on windows


1)download latest version of wordpress from wordpress.og
2)extract the zippped file and rename the folder to the name of your project eg staffconnect
3)copy and paste your folder in www folder(on wamp) or htdocs(on xampp)
4)create database to be used eg staffconnect on your pohpmyadmi(localhost/phpmyadmin)
3)enter your project url on a browser eg localhost/staffconnect (asssuming no port on your server)
4)Complete word press welcome installation processes

The WordPress database setup will start automatically. First it will ask you to select your language. After that it will show you some information about setting up your database. Click the Let’s Go button when you’re ready.

On the next screen, you’ll need to provide your database information. The database name will be the one that you entered in the last step. In our case, we called it staffconnect.

Your default database username will be root and you can leave the password blank.

Next, click on the submit button and WordPress will create a configuration file for you.

setting up the WordPress database

After this you will see a screen informing you that WordPress has successfully connected to your database, and you can proceed with the installation.

Go ahead and click the Run the install button.

now you can run the WordPress install on Windows

On the next screen, you can fill out the installation form. You need to provide a title for your website, choose an admin username / password, and provide admin email address.

Once you’re ready, press the Install WordPress button.

configuring WordPress settings

WordPress will quickly run the installation and create database tables. Once done, you will see a success message after the installation is complete.

You can then proceed to your WordPress dashboard by clicking on the Log in button.

Congratulations, you have successfully installed WordPress on a windows computer using WAMP.



Git commands

Configuration & set up: git config

1)git remote add <remote_name> <remote_repo_url>
2)git config --global user.name "name"
3)git config --global user.email "email"


1) open git or cmd in the wp-content folder
2)initialise git by runing the git init command
3)add files by running the git add . command
4)commit your files by running git commit -m "your commit message" command
5)pulling data from a remote repository type git pull
6)push your changes to the remote repository by running git push command


Cloning an existing repository: git clone


type this vommand ->git clone <repo url> eg it clone https://git.com/pnrhost.com/staffconnect.git